Comparative and evolutionary genomics of _Gardnerella vaginalis_
========================

Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a common vaginal disorder typified by itching, odor, discharge and elevated risk to sexually transmitted infections. While its exact etiology is unknown, _Gardnerella vaginalis_ has frequently been singled out as the most likely culprit because of its presence in nearly all BV cases. However, the bacterium is also detected in many healthy individuals, precluding a definitive link between _G. vaginalis_ and BV in the traditional paradigm of Koch’s postulates of disease. Previous studies suggest the species is highly diverse and may comprise several distinct ‘ecotypes’ with variable association to BV. This study delves into the genomic diversity and evolutionary history of _G. vaginalis_ to identify important gene functions that define this enigmatic species.

In addition to genomes from public databases, we are comparing genomic sequences of _Gardnerella_ recovered from the vaginas of healthy girls and women to further explore the species in the context of ‘normal and healthy’ conditions. Our subjects include adolescent girls, reproductive-age women, and postmenopausal women. The aim of this study is to investigate whether the _G. vaginalis_ found in these healthy individuals are genetically and functionally distinct from those found in women with symptomatic BV. These investigations will provide a broader foundation for understanding the ecology of _G. vaginalis_ in health and disease.
